
# Why property-based testing matters

*Property-based testing* (PBT) is a testing methodology for
software components (e.g. functions, classes, web APIs, etc.).
Instead of writing many specifying test cases, a PBT test suite
consists of *general properties* and (possibly) some *data
generators*. An arbitrary number of tests can then be generated
automatically by the testing framework.

PBT originated more than 20 years ago in the functional programming
community, but has since been adopted in many other programming
languages and paradigms. It has also seen relevant industry adoption
in companies like Ericsson, Volvo, Dropbox and AWS.

This talk will present the main ideas behind PBT and show examples
using Python's *Hypothesis* PBT library. Basic knowledge of Python is
assumed, but no previous experience with PBT is needed.

We argue that the current trend towards the adoption of AI-based tools
(such as ChatGPT, Co-Pilot, etc.) for code generation makes PBT more
relevant as a practical lightweight tool for code verification.

This talk will be delivered in either English or Portuguese depending
on the audience's preference.


# Short bio

Pedro Vasconcelos did his BSc and MSc in Computer Science at the
Facility of Sciences of the University of Porto and his PhD at the
University of St Andrews (Scotland).  He has been an Auxiliary
Professor at DCC/FCUP since 2008, where he lectured courses in
programming languages, compilers and related subjects.  He is an
integrated member of LIACC (Artificial Intelligence and Computer
Science Laboratory). His research interests include functional
programming, type systems, property-based testing and programming
pedagogy.
